Hello and welcome in this lecture.
We're going to be making health balls invisible when they're full and show up when we start attacking
someone.
As you can see here.
And when it is fully empty again they disappear.
Let's dive in and see how to do that.
So we want to try enabling and disabling that health bar.
Now to do that we are going to be let's have a look at our health bar prefab.
Let's go open that up.
Ian you are in game health bar and the way we can enable and disable this is very simply by enabling
or disabling this canvas.
So if I enable or disable a canvas component then the whole thing just disappears.
So that's what I want to do.
And you can have a go at doing that for yourself if you want to if you can think of how you're going
to make sure that's enabled and disabled based on the fraction being 0 or 1.
Go ahead and try that out.
OK.
So what I'm gonna do first of all is go for serialized field and canvas and then I'm just going to have
this as the root Canvas equals no.
And that's what we're going to connect up over in the inspector so that our health bar component knows
which canvas component it should be switching on and off.
So then what we're going to do is in update basically it's going to be based on and get fractions.
So we're gonna say first of all if and here because we're dealing with floating points we should use
math f dots approximately which allows us to do approximate equality between floating point values.
So hang on a second there.
I hear you asking why can't we do equality on floating point.
Well the reason is imprecision in floating points just inherent in floating points or doubles or any
kind of computation with arbitrary precision numbers on a computer it just can't do arbitrary precision.
It has to do a specific precision.
So for example here's how it can occur.
Suppose we have these two floating point variables start off where then we do a full loop that it's
rates as you can see a hundred times according to this end value it's going to go through 100 times
and all we're doing is at totaling up in this f variable we're doing 1 divided by whatever the number
of times we're doing this loop is.
So it's going to be one hundredth.
So a hundred times round we are going to be adding 100 to zero which means that by the end of the loop
if the precision is absolutely spot on what we should have is one in F.
Right.
That's what we should expect to see so we go ahead and print it with ten decimal places.
And what do you think is going to come out.
Well actually as it turns out it is nought point 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 3 or something like that.
And it's going to actually be different on different computers as well because different chips different
CPE use implement floating point in different ways.
And the result might be higher or lower precision as a result.
So basically this just points out that you might be doing operations with floats and thinking that you're
gonna get exact results out you can't get exact results.
There are going to be errors in whatever floating point operations you do and that is why instead of
saying we want this and to be exactly one we're going to say this answer should be approximately one
and that is where math f dot approximately comes in and all going to do is get the fraction of the health.
And if that is approximately zero then what we're going to do is go to our canvas root Canvas rather
and set enabled to false and just go ahead and return straight weeks because you don't have to change
or update the local scale in any way.
But if we get through that if statement instead we're going to have to enable the canvas so enabled
true so we can see it and then we set and update the local scale.
So if we go ahead and hit play now what I'd expect to see is that when I kill the enemy.
His health bar disappears.
So kill this guy over here and Southport goes down to zero and it disappears because there's no information
he is dead.
We can see that we don't need to be shown.
There's also very little information when the health bar is full.
If you've got an enemy that is standing up then you know that their health is full.
So let's go ahead and hide it in that case too.
In fact many challenge for you again if you haven't already done this or were struggling with the first
bit of the challenge and want to try things out for yourself then do go ahead and see if you can also
make it disable when the health buys for OK so the way I'm going to do this is I'm going to add an oar
into our if statement.
So two bars for all.
And then we do a math.
I'm just going to align things a little bit math after APR again.
We're going to use the health components dots get fraction and we're going to check whether that is
equal to one or approximately equal to one.
So not saying if it is approximately equal to zero or if it is approximately equal to one then we are
disabling the canvas.
Otherwise we are updating it and showing it.
So let's go ahead and hit play now.
And what I'd expect to see is that all the health bars are invisible until you start attacking someone
and then it kind of shows you their progress of having been killed until they are dead.
And then the health board disappears.
Again OK so that was just a quickie on how we can update our health bars to be invisible both when fully
full or fully empty.
See you in the next lecture.